{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf130
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18100\viewh19000\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Scenario: User retrieves a file from tape that is not on disk\
\
1. User runs a command-line tool to synchronously copy a file from EOSTAPE to their local disk.\
\
eos cp /eos/murrayc3/tape_dir/tape_file local_file\
\
2. The command-line tool connects to the xrootd server with the mgm plugin running and requests the destination file tape_file be opened for reading.\
\
3. The mgm plugin asserts the file exists on a tape VST but does not exist on a disk FST and sends the command-line tool an error such as \'93File X is not on disk, please bring it on-line\'94.\
\
4. User runs a command-line tool to request the file be prepared for access and therefore staged to disk.\
\
xrdfs prepare -s root://localhost//eos/murrayc3/tape_dir/tape_file\
\
DOES THE EOS MGM SUPPORT THE PREPARE COMMAND?\
WILL THIS COMMAND NEED TO BE ADDED TO THE EOS COMMAND-LINE TOOL?\
\
5. The mgm plugin checks the file is not already on disk, that the file is on tape and that there is currently no ongoing prepare operation for the file.\
\
IS THE MGM RESPONSIBLE FOR IDENTIFYING AND COLLAPSING MULTIPLE PREPARE REQUESTS FOR THE SAME FILE?\
\
6. The mgm plugin connects to the CTA xrootd front-end and queues a request to retrieve the file from tape.  The request includes the EOS instance, EOS inode and the destination tape storage class.\
\
7. The CTA front end checks that CTA knows the tape file location based on the EOS instance and EOS inode.\
\
8. The CTA front end stores the retrieval request in the CTA object store.\
\
9. In the meantime the user runs a command-line tool in a loop to decide when the file has been staged to disk.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 fileinfo /eos/murrayc3/tape_dir/tape_file --fullpath | grep fst\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
HOW DOES THE USER EASILY DISTINGUISH BETWEEN A DISK AND A TAPE [FV]ST?\
\
10. A tape server pulls the need to mount a tape from the CTA object store and does so.\
\
11. The tape server pulls the retrieval request from the CTA object store.\
 \
12. The tape server connects to the xrootd server with the mgm plugin and requests the destination disk FST file be opened for writing based on its inode.\
\
CAN THE MGM REDIRECT BASED ON INODE AS OPPOSED TO EOS LOGICAL PATH?\
\
13. The mgm plugin redirects the tape server to a disk FST.\
\
WILL THE MGM CHOOSE THE LEAST LOADED DISK FST?\
\
14. The tape server opens the file on the disk FST for writing.\
\
15. The tape drive reads blocks from the tape and writes them to the disk FST file.\
\
16. The tape drive closes the disk FST file.\
\
17. The disk FST notifies the mgm that the file has been staged to disk.\
\
18. The user notices the file is now on disk and in response runs a command-line tool to synchronously copy a file from EOSTAPE to their local disk.\
\
eos cp /eos/murrayc3/tape_dir/tape_file local_file\
\
19.  The command-line tool connects to the xrootd server with the mgm plugin running and requests the destination file tape_file be opened for reading.\
\
20. The mgm plugin asserts the file exists on disk and redirects the command-line tool to the disk FST.\
\
21. The command-line tool opens, reads and closes the file on the disk FST.\
}